README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/graphistry/pygraphistry.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/graphistry/pygraphistry) 
[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/graphistry.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphistry) 
[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/graphistry.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphistry) 
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/graphistry.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphistry)


# PyGraphistry: Explore Relationships

PyGraphistry is a visual graph analytics library to extract, transform, and load big graphs into [Graphistry's](http://www.graphistry.com) cloud-based graph explorer.

It supports unusually large graphs for interactive visualization. The client's custom WebGL rendering engine renders up to 8MM nodes and edges at a time, and most older client GPUs smoothly support somewhere between 100K and 1MM elements. The serverside OpenCL analytics engine supports even bigger graphs.

1. [Interactive Demo](#demo-of-friendship-communities-on-facebook)
2. [Graph Gallery](#gallery)
3. [Installation](#installation)
4. [Tutorial](#tutorial-les-misérables)
5. [API Reference](#api-reference)

### Demo of Friendship Communities on Facebook

<table style="width:100%;">
  <tr valign="top">
    <td align="center">Click to open interactive version! <em>(For server-backed interactive analytics, use an API key)</em><a href="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=Facebook&usertag=github&info=true&static=true&contentKey=Facebook_Github_Demo&play=7000&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-2.02e+4&right=1.51e+4&top=-1.07e+4&bottom=9.15e+3&legend={%22nodes%22:%20%22People%20(Names%20are%20fake).%3Cbr/%3E%20Color%20indicates%20community%20and%20size%20shows%20popularity.%22,%20%22edges%22:%20%22Friendships%22,%20%22subtitle%22:%20%22%3Cp%3ECreate%20your%20own%20visualizations%20with%20%3Ca%20href=\%22https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/\%22%3EPyGraphistry%3C/a%3E.%3C/p%3E%22,%20%22title%22:%20%22%3Ch3%3EFacebook%20Friendships%20(Read-only%20Mode)%3C/h3%3E%22}" target="_blank"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/Ows4rK4.png" title="Click to open."></a>
    <em>Source data: <a href="http://snap.stanford.edu" target="_blank">SNAP</a></em>
	</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- IFRAME VERSION
### The Demo:

<table style="width:100%;">
  <tr valign="top">
    <td align="center"><b>Friendship Communities on Facebook.</b> (Read-only interactive version.)<br><iframe width="100%" height="500" src="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=PyGraphistry/VAXME5LTUN&usertag=github&info=true&static=true&contentKey=Facebook_Github_Demo&play=0&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-2.02e+4&right=1.51e+4&top=-1.07e+4&bottom=9.15e+3&legend={%22nodes%22:%20%22People%20(Names%20are%20fake).%3Cbr/%3E%20Color%20indicates%20community%20and%20size%20shows%20popularity.%22,%20%22edges%22:%20%22Friendships%22,%20%22subtitle%22:%20%22%3Cp%3ECreate%20your%20own%20visualizations%20with%20%3Ca%20href=\%22https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/\%22%3EPyGraphistry%3C/a%3E.%3C/p%3E%22,%20%22title%22:%20%22%3Ch3%3EFacebook%20Friendships%20(Read-only%20Mode)%3C/h3%3E%22}" target="_blank"></iframe><br></a>
    <em>Source data: <a href="http://snap.stanford.edu" target="_blank">SNAP</a></em>
	</td>
  </tr>
</table>
-->

### PyGraphistry is...

- **Fast & Gorgeous:** Cluster, filter, and inspect large amounts of data at interactive speed. We layout graphs with a descendant of the gorgeous ForceAtlas2 layout algorithm introduced in Gephi. Our data explorer connects to Graphistry's GPU cluster to layout and render hundreds of thousand of nodes+edges in your browser at unparalleled speeds.

-  **Notebook Friendly:** PyGraphistry plays well with interactive notebooks like [IPython/Juypter](http://ipython.org), [Zeppelin](https://zeppelin.incubator.apache.org/), and [Databricks](http://databricks.com): Process, visualize, and drill into with graphs directly within your notebooks.

- **Batteries Included:** PyGraphistry works out-of-the-box with popular data science and graph analytics libraries. It is also very easy to use. To create the visualization shown above, download  [this dataset](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/master/demos/data/facebook_combined.txt) of Facebook communities from [SNAP](http://snap.stanford.edu) and load it with your favorite library:

  - [Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org)

     ```python
     edges = pandas.read_csv('facebook_combined.txt', sep=' ', names=['src', 'dst'])
     graphistry.bind(source='src', destination='dst').plot(edges)
     ```

  - [IGraph](http://igraph.org)

     ```python
     graph = igraph.read('facebook_combined.txt', format='edgelist', directed=False)
     graphistry.bind(source='src', destination='dst').plot(graph)
     ```

  - [NetworkX](https://networkx.github.io) ([notebook demo](demos/more/networkx/networkx.ipynb))

     ```python
     graph = networkx.read_edgelist('facebook_combined.txt')
     graphistry.bind(source='src', destination='dst', node='nodeid').plot(graph)
     ```


- **Great for Events, CSVs, and more:** Not sure if your data is graph-friendly? PyGraphistry's `hypergraph` transform helps turn any sample data like CSVs, SQL results, and event data into a graph for pattern analysis:

     ```python
     rows = pandas.read_csv('transactions.csv')[:1000]
     graphistry.hypergraph(rows)['graph'].plot()
     ```

### Gallery

<table>
    <tr valign="top">
        <td width="33%" align="center"><a href="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=Twitter&info=true&play=3000&static=true&contentKey=Twitter_Github_Demo&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-1.92e+3&right=1.68e+3&top=-1.03e+3&bottom=985&usertag=github&legend={%22title%22:%22%3Ch3%3ECriminal%20Twitter%20Botnet%3C/h3%3E%22,%22subtitle%22:%22%3Cp%3EThe%20botnet%20(right%20layer),%20%20launders%20Twitter%20retweets%20through%20an%20indirection%20layer%20(middle)%20%20in%20order%20to%20build%20social%20rank%20for%20fraudsters%20(left).%20%20Twitter%27s%20core%20targeting%20algorithm%20then%20routes%20the%20artificially%20trending%20tweets%20%20to%20potential%20victims%20in%20the%20precise%20demographic%20of%20FIFA/Madden%20gamers.%3C/p%3E%20%3Cp%3EMany%20victims%20have%20been%20tricked%20into%20revealing%20their%20credit%20cards%20and%20passports.%3C/p%3E%22,%22nodes%22:%22Twitter%20accounts%22,%22edges%22:%22Follow%20relationship%22}" target="_blank">Twitter Botnet<br><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/qm5MCqS.jpg"></a></td>
        <td width="33%" align="center">Edit Wars on Wikipedia<br><a href="http://i.imgur.com/074zFve.png" target="_blank"><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/074zFve.png"></a><em>Source: <a href="http://snap.stanford.edu" target="_blank">SNAP</a></em></td>
        <td width="33%" align="center"><a href="https://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=bitC&static=true&play=20000" target="_blank">100,000 Bitcoin Transactions<br><img width="266" height="266" src="http://imgur.com/download/axIkjfd"></a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr valign="top">
        <td width="33%" align="center">Port Scan Attack<br><a href="http://i.imgur.com/vKUDySw.png" target="_blank"><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/vKUDySw.png"></a></td>
        <td width="33%" align="center"><a href="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=PyGraphistry/M9RL4PQFSF&usertag=github&info=true&static=true&contentKey=Biogrid_Github_Demo&play=3000&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-2.58e+4&right=4.35e+4&top=-1.72e+4&bottom=2.16e+4&legend={%22title%22:%22%3Ch3%3EBioGRID%20Repository%20of%20Protein%20Interactions%3C/h3%3E%22,%22subtitle%22:%22%3Cp%3EEach%20color%20represents%20an%20organism.%20Humans%20are%20in%20light%20blue.%3C/p%3E%22,%22nodes%22:%22Proteins/Genes%22,%22edges%22:%22Interactions%20reported%20in%20scientific%20publications%22}" target="_blank">Protein Interactions <br><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/nrUHLFz.png" target="_blank"></a><em>Source: <a href="http://thebiogrid.org" target="_blank">BioGRID</a></em></td>
        <td width="33%" align="center"><a href="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?&dataset=PyGraphistry/PC7D53HHS5&info=true&static=true&contentKey=SocioPlt_Github_Demo&play=3000&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-236&right=265&top=-145&bottom=134&usertag=github&legend=%7B%22nodes%22%3A%20%22%3Cspan%20style%3D%5C%22color%3A%23a6cee3%3B%5C%22%3ELanguages%3C/span%3E%20/%20%3Cspan%20style%3D%5C%22color%3Argb%28106%2C%2061%2C%20154%29%3B%5C%22%3EStatements%3C/span%3E%22%2C%20%22edges%22%3A%20%22Strong%20Correlations%22%2C%20%22subtitle%22%3A%20%22%3Cp%3EFor%20more%20information%2C%20check%20out%20the%20%3Ca%20target%3D%5C%22_blank%5C%22%20href%3D%5C%22https%3A//lmeyerov.github.io/projects/socioplt/viz/index.html%5C%22%3ESocio-PLT%3C/a%3E%20project.%20Make%20your%20own%20visualizations%20with%20%3Ca%20target%3D%5C%22_blank%5C%22%20href%3D%5C%22https%3A//github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry%5C%22%3EPyGraphistry%3C/a%3E.%3C/p%3E%22%2C%20%22title%22%3A%20%22%3Ch3%3ECorrelation%20Between%20Statements%20about%20Programming%20Languages%3C/h3%3E%22%7D" target="_blank">Programming Languages<br><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/0T0EKmD.png"></a><em>Source: <a href="http://lmeyerov.github.io/projects/socioplt/viz/index.html" target="_blank">Socio-PLT project</a></em></td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Installation

We recommend two options for installing PyGraphistry:

1. Pip: If you already have Jupyter Notebook installed, or are a heavy Graphistry user, install the PyGraphistry pip package
2. Docker: For quickly trying Graphistry when you do not have Jupyter Notebook installed and find doing so difficult, use our complete Docker image

### Option 1: PyGraphistry pip package for Python or Jupyter Notebook users
**Dependencies for non-Docker installation**
[Python](https://www.python.org) 2.7 or 3.4 (experimental).

- If you already have Python, install IPython (Jupyter): `pip install "ipython[notebook]"`
- Launch notebook server: `ipython notebook`


Once you have Jupyter notebooks, the simplest way to install PyGraphistry is with Python's pip package manager:

- Pandas only: `pip install graphistry`
- Pandas, IGraph, and NetworkX: `pip install "graphistry[all]"`

### Option 2: Full Docker container for PyGraphistry, Jupyter Notebook, and Scipy/numpy/pandas

If you do not already have Jupyter Notebook, you can quickly start via our prebuilt Docker container:

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com)
2. Install and run the Jupyter Notebook + Graphistry container:

  `docker run -it --rm -p 8888:8888  graphistry/jupyter-notebook`
 
  If you would like to open data in the current folder `$PWD` or save results to the current folder `$PWD`, instead run:

  `docker run -it --rm -p 8888:8888 -v "$PWD":/home/jovyan/work/myPWDFolder graphistry/jupyter-notebook`
 
3. After you run the above command, you will be provided a link. Go to it in a web browser:

	 `http://localhost:8888/?token=< generated token value >`
 



##### IPython (Jupyter) Notebook Integration

### API Key
An API key gives each visualization access to our GPU cluster. We currently ask for API keys to make sure our servers are not melting :) You can [sign up for free access here](http://www.graphistry.com/api-request). Set your key after the `import graphistry` statement and you are good to go:

```python
import graphistry
graphistry.register(key='Your key')
```

Optionally, for convenience, you may set your API key in your system environment and thereby skip the register step in all your notebooks. In your `.profile` or `.bash_profile`, add the following and reload your environment:

```export GRAPHISTRY_API_KEY="Your key"```

## Tutorial: Les Misérables

Let's visualize relationships between the characters in [Les Misérables](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Les_Misérables).
For this example, we'll choose [Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org) to wrangle data and [IGraph](http://igraph.org) to run a community detection algorithm. You can [view](http://graphistry.github.io/pygraphistry/html/Quickstart%20(Les%20Miserables).html) and [download](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/master/demos/MiserablesDemo.ipynb) the IPython notebook containing this example.

Our [dataset is a CSV file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/master/demos/data/lesmiserables.csv) that looks like this:

| source        | target        | value  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Cravatte |	Myriel | 1
| Valjean	| Mme.Magloire | 3
| Valjean	| Mlle.Baptistine | 3

*Source* and *target* are character names, and the *value* column counts the number of time they meet. Parsing is a one-liner with Pandas:

```python
import pandas
links = pandas.read_csv('./lesmiserables.csv')
```

### Quick Visualization

If you already have graph-like data, use this step. Otherwise, try the [Hypergraph Transform](https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/blob/master/demos/more/malware-hypergraph/Malware%20Hypergraph.ipynb)

PyGraphistry can plot graphs directly from Pandas dataframes, IGraph graphs, or NetworkX graphs. Calling *plot* uploads the data to our visualization servers and return an URL to an embeddable webpage containing the visualization.

To define the graph, we <code>bind</code> *source* and *destination* to the columns indicating the start and end nodes of each edges:

```python
import graphistry
graphistry.register(key='YOUR_API_KEY_HERE')

plotter = graphistry.bind(source="source", destination="target")
plotter.plot(links)
```

You should see a beautiful graph like this one:
![Graph of Miserables](http://i.imgur.com/dRHHTyK.png)

### Adding Labels

Let's add labels to edges in order to show how many times each pair of characters met. We create a new column called *label* in edge table *links* that contains the text of the label and we bind *edge_label* to it.

```python
links["label"] = links.value.map(lambda v: "#Meetings: %d" % v)
plotter = plotter.bind(edge_label="label")
plotter.plot(links)
```

### Controlling Node Size and Color
Let's size nodes based on their [PageRank](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PageRank) score and color them using their [community](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_structure). [IGraph](http://igraph.org/python/) already has these algorithms implemented for us. If IGraph is not already installed, fetch it with `pip install python-igraph`. Warning: `pip install igraph` will install the wrong package!

We start by converting our edge dateframe into an IGraph. The plotter can do the conversion for us using the *source* and *destination* bindings. Then we create two new node attributes (*pagerank* & *community*).

```python
ig = plotter.pandas2igraph(links)
ig.vs['pagerank'] = ig.pagerank()
ig.vs['community'] = ig.community_infomap().membership

plotter.bind(point_color='community', point_size='pagerank').plot(ig)
```

![Second Graph of Miserables](http://i.imgur.com/P7fm5sn.png)

## Next Steps

1. [Sign up](http://www.graphistry.com/api-request) for a free API key!
2. Read our advanced tutorials:
	-  [Creating a node table + controlling sizes and colors (HoneyPot)](http://graphistry.github.io/pygraphistry/html/Tutorial%20Part%201%20(Honey%20Pot).html)
	-  [Aggregating edges and creating multiple views of the same data (Apache Logs)](http://graphistry.github.io/pygraphistry/html/Tutorial%20Part%202%20(Apache%20Logs).html)
	- [Hypergraph Transform for turning Events and CSVs into Graphs](https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/blob/master/demos/more/malware-hypergraph/Malware%20Hypergraph.ipynb)
3. Check out our [demos folder](https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/tree/master/demos).

## API Reference

Full Python (including IPython/Juypter) [API documentation](http://pygraphistry.readthedocs.org/en/latest/).

Commit message:

docs(manual layout)
* docs(simple manual layout demo)
— rename old to networkx
— add new simpler one

* docs(control positions)

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/graphistry/pygraphistry.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/graphistry/pygraphistry) 
[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/graphistry.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphistry) 
[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/graphistry.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphistry) 
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/graphistry.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphistry)


# PyGraphistry: Explore Relationships

PyGraphistry is a visual graph analytics library to extract, transform, and load big graphs into [Graphistry's](http://www.graphistry.com) cloud-based graph explorer.

It supports unusually large graphs for interactive visualization. The client's custom WebGL rendering engine renders up to 8MM nodes and edges at a time, and most older client GPUs smoothly support somewhere between 100K and 1MM elements. The serverside OpenCL analytics engine supports even bigger graphs.

1. [Interactive Demo](#demo-of-friendship-communities-on-facebook)
2. [Graph Gallery](#gallery)
3. [Installation](#installation)
4. [Tutorial](#tutorial-les-misérables)
5. [API Reference](#api-reference)

### Demo of Friendship Communities on Facebook

<table style="width:100%;">
  <tr valign="top">
    <td align="center">Click to open interactive version! <em>(For server-backed interactive analytics, use an API key)</em><a href="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=Facebook&usertag=github&info=true&static=true&contentKey=Facebook_Github_Demo&play=7000&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-2.02e+4&right=1.51e+4&top=-1.07e+4&bottom=9.15e+3&legend={%22nodes%22:%20%22People%20(Names%20are%20fake).%3Cbr/%3E%20Color%20indicates%20community%20and%20size%20shows%20popularity.%22,%20%22edges%22:%20%22Friendships%22,%20%22subtitle%22:%20%22%3Cp%3ECreate%20your%20own%20visualizations%20with%20%3Ca%20href=\%22https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/\%22%3EPyGraphistry%3C/a%3E.%3C/p%3E%22,%20%22title%22:%20%22%3Ch3%3EFacebook%20Friendships%20(Read-only%20Mode)%3C/h3%3E%22}" target="_blank"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/Ows4rK4.png" title="Click to open."></a>
    <em>Source data: <a href="http://snap.stanford.edu" target="_blank">SNAP</a></em>
	</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- IFRAME VERSION
### The Demo:

<table style="width:100%;">
  <tr valign="top">
    <td align="center"><b>Friendship Communities on Facebook.</b> (Read-only interactive version.)<br><iframe width="100%" height="500" src="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=PyGraphistry/VAXME5LTUN&usertag=github&info=true&static=true&contentKey=Facebook_Github_Demo&play=0&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-2.02e+4&right=1.51e+4&top=-1.07e+4&bottom=9.15e+3&legend={%22nodes%22:%20%22People%20(Names%20are%20fake).%3Cbr/%3E%20Color%20indicates%20community%20and%20size%20shows%20popularity.%22,%20%22edges%22:%20%22Friendships%22,%20%22subtitle%22:%20%22%3Cp%3ECreate%20your%20own%20visualizations%20with%20%3Ca%20href=\%22https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/\%22%3EPyGraphistry%3C/a%3E.%3C/p%3E%22,%20%22title%22:%20%22%3Ch3%3EFacebook%20Friendships%20(Read-only%20Mode)%3C/h3%3E%22}" target="_blank"></iframe><br></a>
    <em>Source data: <a href="http://snap.stanford.edu" target="_blank">SNAP</a></em>
	</td>
  </tr>
</table>
-->

### PyGraphistry is...

- **Fast & Gorgeous:** Cluster, filter, and inspect large amounts of data at interactive speed. We layout graphs with a descendant of the gorgeous ForceAtlas2 layout algorithm introduced in Gephi. Our data explorer connects to Graphistry's GPU cluster to layout and render hundreds of thousand of nodes+edges in your browser at unparalleled speeds.

-  **Notebook Friendly:** PyGraphistry plays well with interactive notebooks like [IPython/Juypter](http://ipython.org), [Zeppelin](https://zeppelin.incubator.apache.org/), and [Databricks](http://databricks.com): Process, visualize, and drill into with graphs directly within your notebooks.

- **Batteries Included:** PyGraphistry works out-of-the-box with popular data science and graph analytics libraries. It is also very easy to use. To create the visualization shown above, download  [this dataset](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/master/demos/data/facebook_combined.txt) of Facebook communities from [SNAP](http://snap.stanford.edu) and load it with your favorite library:

  - [Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org)

     ```python
     edges = pandas.read_csv('facebook_combined.txt', sep=' ', names=['src', 'dst'])
     graphistry.bind(source='src', destination='dst').plot(edges)
     ```

  - [IGraph](http://igraph.org)

     ```python
     graph = igraph.read('facebook_combined.txt', format='edgelist', directed=False)
     graphistry.bind(source='src', destination='dst').plot(graph)
     ```

  - [NetworkX](https://networkx.github.io) ([notebook demo](demos/more/networkx/networkx.ipynb))

     ```python
     graph = networkx.read_edgelist('facebook_combined.txt')
     graphistry.bind(source='src', destination='dst', node='nodeid').plot(graph)
     ```


- **Great for Events, CSVs, and more:** Not sure if your data is graph-friendly? PyGraphistry's `hypergraph` transform helps turn any sample data like CSVs, SQL results, and event data into a graph for pattern analysis:

     ```python
     rows = pandas.read_csv('transactions.csv')[:1000]
     graphistry.hypergraph(rows)['graph'].plot()
     ```

### Gallery

<table>
    <tr valign="top">
        <td width="33%" align="center"><a href="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=Twitter&info=true&play=3000&static=true&contentKey=Twitter_Github_Demo&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-1.92e+3&right=1.68e+3&top=-1.03e+3&bottom=985&usertag=github&legend={%22title%22:%22%3Ch3%3ECriminal%20Twitter%20Botnet%3C/h3%3E%22,%22subtitle%22:%22%3Cp%3EThe%20botnet%20(right%20layer),%20%20launders%20Twitter%20retweets%20through%20an%20indirection%20layer%20(middle)%20%20in%20order%20to%20build%20social%20rank%20for%20fraudsters%20(left).%20%20Twitter%27s%20core%20targeting%20algorithm%20then%20routes%20the%20artificially%20trending%20tweets%20%20to%20potential%20victims%20in%20the%20precise%20demographic%20of%20FIFA/Madden%20gamers.%3C/p%3E%20%3Cp%3EMany%20victims%20have%20been%20tricked%20into%20revealing%20their%20credit%20cards%20and%20passports.%3C/p%3E%22,%22nodes%22:%22Twitter%20accounts%22,%22edges%22:%22Follow%20relationship%22}" target="_blank">Twitter Botnet<br><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/qm5MCqS.jpg"></a></td>
        <td width="33%" align="center">Edit Wars on Wikipedia<br><a href="http://i.imgur.com/074zFve.png" target="_blank"><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/074zFve.png"></a><em>Source: <a href="http://snap.stanford.edu" target="_blank">SNAP</a></em></td>
        <td width="33%" align="center"><a href="https://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=bitC&static=true&play=20000" target="_blank">100,000 Bitcoin Transactions<br><img width="266" height="266" src="http://imgur.com/download/axIkjfd"></a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr valign="top">
        <td width="33%" align="center">Port Scan Attack<br><a href="http://i.imgur.com/vKUDySw.png" target="_blank"><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/vKUDySw.png"></a></td>
        <td width="33%" align="center"><a href="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?dataset=PyGraphistry/M9RL4PQFSF&usertag=github&info=true&static=true&contentKey=Biogrid_Github_Demo&play=3000&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-2.58e+4&right=4.35e+4&top=-1.72e+4&bottom=2.16e+4&legend={%22title%22:%22%3Ch3%3EBioGRID%20Repository%20of%20Protein%20Interactions%3C/h3%3E%22,%22subtitle%22:%22%3Cp%3EEach%20color%20represents%20an%20organism.%20Humans%20are%20in%20light%20blue.%3C/p%3E%22,%22nodes%22:%22Proteins/Genes%22,%22edges%22:%22Interactions%20reported%20in%20scientific%20publications%22}" target="_blank">Protein Interactions <br><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/nrUHLFz.png" target="_blank"></a><em>Source: <a href="http://thebiogrid.org" target="_blank">BioGRID</a></em></td>
        <td width="33%" align="center"><a href="http://labs.graphistry.com/graph/graph.html?&dataset=PyGraphistry/PC7D53HHS5&info=true&static=true&contentKey=SocioPlt_Github_Demo&play=3000&center=false&menu=true&goLive=false&left=-236&right=265&top=-145&bottom=134&usertag=github&legend=%7B%22nodes%22%3A%20%22%3Cspan%20style%3D%5C%22color%3A%23a6cee3%3B%5C%22%3ELanguages%3C/span%3E%20/%20%3Cspan%20style%3D%5C%22color%3Argb%28106%2C%2061%2C%20154%29%3B%5C%22%3EStatements%3C/span%3E%22%2C%20%22edges%22%3A%20%22Strong%20Correlations%22%2C%20%22subtitle%22%3A%20%22%3Cp%3EFor%20more%20information%2C%20check%20out%20the%20%3Ca%20target%3D%5C%22_blank%5C%22%20href%3D%5C%22https%3A//lmeyerov.github.io/projects/socioplt/viz/index.html%5C%22%3ESocio-PLT%3C/a%3E%20project.%20Make%20your%20own%20visualizations%20with%20%3Ca%20target%3D%5C%22_blank%5C%22%20href%3D%5C%22https%3A//github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry%5C%22%3EPyGraphistry%3C/a%3E.%3C/p%3E%22%2C%20%22title%22%3A%20%22%3Ch3%3ECorrelation%20Between%20Statements%20about%20Programming%20Languages%3C/h3%3E%22%7D" target="_blank">Programming Languages<br><img width="266" src="http://i.imgur.com/0T0EKmD.png"></a><em>Source: <a href="http://lmeyerov.github.io/projects/socioplt/viz/index.html" target="_blank">Socio-PLT project</a></em></td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Installation

We recommend two options for installing PyGraphistry:

1. Pip: If you already have Jupyter Notebook installed, or are a heavy Graphistry user, install the PyGraphistry pip package
2. Docker: For quickly trying Graphistry when you do not have Jupyter Notebook installed and find doing so difficult, use our complete Docker image

### Option 1: PyGraphistry pip package for Python or Jupyter Notebook users
**Dependencies for non-Docker installation**
[Python](https://www.python.org) 2.7 or 3.4 (experimental).

- If you already have Python, install IPython (Jupyter): `pip install "ipython[notebook]"`
- Launch notebook server: `ipython notebook`


Once you have Jupyter notebooks, the simplest way to install PyGraphistry is with Python's pip package manager:

- Pandas only: `pip install graphistry`
- Pandas, IGraph, and NetworkX: `pip install "graphistry[all]"`

### Option 2: Full Docker container for PyGraphistry, Jupyter Notebook, and Scipy/numpy/pandas

If you do not already have Jupyter Notebook, you can quickly start via our prebuilt Docker container:

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com)
2. Install and run the Jupyter Notebook + Graphistry container:

  `docker run -it --rm -p 8888:8888  graphistry/jupyter-notebook`
 
  If you would like to open data in the current folder `$PWD` or save results to the current folder `$PWD`, instead run:

  `docker run -it --rm -p 8888:8888 -v "$PWD":/home/jovyan/work/myPWDFolder graphistry/jupyter-notebook`
 
3. After you run the above command, you will be provided a link. Go to it in a web browser:

	 `http://localhost:8888/?token=< generated token value >`
 



##### IPython (Jupyter) Notebook Integration

### API Key
An API key gives each visualization access to our GPU cluster. We currently ask for API keys to make sure our servers are not melting :) You can [sign up for free access here](http://www.graphistry.com/api-request). Set your key after the `import graphistry` statement and you are good to go:

```python
import graphistry
graphistry.register(key='Your key')
```

Optionally, for convenience, you may set your API key in your system environment and thereby skip the register step in all your notebooks. In your `.profile` or `.bash_profile`, add the following and reload your environment:

```export GRAPHISTRY_API_KEY="Your key"```

## Tutorial: Les Misérables

Let's visualize relationships between the characters in [Les Misérables](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Les_Misérables).
For this example, we'll choose [Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org) to wrangle data and [IGraph](http://igraph.org) to run a community detection algorithm. You can [view](http://graphistry.github.io/pygraphistry/html/Quickstart%20(Les%20Miserables).html) and [download](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/master/demos/MiserablesDemo.ipynb) the IPython notebook containing this example.

Our [dataset is a CSV file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/master/demos/data/lesmiserables.csv) that looks like this:

| source        | target        | value  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Cravatte |	Myriel | 1
| Valjean	| Mme.Magloire | 3
| Valjean	| Mlle.Baptistine | 3

*Source* and *target* are character names, and the *value* column counts the number of time they meet. Parsing is a one-liner with Pandas:

```python
import pandas
links = pandas.read_csv('./lesmiserables.csv')
```

### Quick Visualization

If you already have graph-like data, use this step. Otherwise, try the [Hypergraph Transform](https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/blob/master/demos/more/malware-hypergraph/Malware%20Hypergraph.ipynb)

PyGraphistry can plot graphs directly from Pandas dataframes, IGraph graphs, or NetworkX graphs. Calling *plot* uploads the data to our visualization servers and return an URL to an embeddable webpage containing the visualization.

To define the graph, we <code>bind</code> *source* and *destination* to the columns indicating the start and end nodes of each edges:

```python
import graphistry
graphistry.register(key='YOUR_API_KEY_HERE')

plotter = graphistry.bind(source="source", destination="target")
plotter.plot(links)
```

You should see a beautiful graph like this one:
![Graph of Miserables](http://i.imgur.com/dRHHTyK.png)

### Adding Labels

Let's add labels to edges in order to show how many times each pair of characters met. We create a new column called *label* in edge table *links* that contains the text of the label and we bind *edge_label* to it.

```python
links["label"] = links.value.map(lambda v: "#Meetings: %d" % v)
plotter = plotter.bind(edge_label="label")
plotter.plot(links)
```

### Controlling Node Size, Color, and Location
Let's size nodes based on their [PageRank](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PageRank) score and color them using their [community](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_structure). [IGraph](http://igraph.org/python/) already has these algorithms implemented for us. If IGraph is not already installed, fetch it with `pip install python-igraph`. Warning: `pip install igraph` will install the wrong package!

We start by converting our edge dateframe into an IGraph. The plotter can do the conversion for us using the *source* and *destination* bindings. Then we create two new node attributes (*pagerank* & *community*).

```python
ig = plotter.pandas2igraph(links)
ig.vs['pagerank'] = ig.pagerank()
ig.vs['community'] = ig.community_infomap().membership

plotter.bind(point_color='community', point_size='pagerank').plot(ig)
```

To control the location, add `x` and `y` columns to the node tables ([see demos](https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/tree/master/demos/more/external_layout)).

![Second Graph of Miserables](http://i.imgur.com/P7fm5sn.png)

## Next Steps

1. [Sign up](http://www.graphistry.com/api-request) for a free API key!
2. Read our advanced tutorials:
	-  [Creating a node table + controlling sizes and colors (HoneyPot)](http://graphistry.github.io/pygraphistry/html/Tutorial%20Part%201%20(Honey%20Pot).html)
	-  [Aggregating edges and creating multiple views of the same data (Apache Logs)](http://graphistry.github.io/pygraphistry/html/Tutorial%20Part%202%20(Apache%20Logs).html)
	- [Hypergraph Transform for turning Events and CSVs into Graphs](https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/blob/master/demos/more/malware-hypergraph/Malware%20Hypergraph.ipynb)
3. Check out our [demos folder](https://github.com/graphistry/pygraphistry/tree/master/demos).

## API Reference

Full Python (including IPython/Juypter) [API documentation](http://pygraphistry.readthedocs.org/en/latest/).
